hi Rosie friends its Julie and today I'd
like to talk about sunscreen um that is
a topic I have covered bits at a time in
the past when I've kind of reviewed
individual sunscreen products and it's
actually the way that this channel
started was that I had thought that I'd
found a sunscreen that worked I used it
for years and then it stopped working
and I was so frustrated that I couldn't
just talk about it on my blog I had to
actually talk about it verbally I
couldn't just write it and you know try
and be cute about it and things like
that I was so frustrated that I actually
needed to make a video and so I did so
that's actually how the whole channel
gets got started so I can totally
understand why I'm always getting so
many questions about what sunscreen I
prefer because when you have rosacea Sun
is the most common trigger it's why my
face is a little bit pink right now
because I just ran to the corner store
it's about five minutes away so I didn't
put sunscreen on because I have this hat
on which is completely stupid and I hope
tell you why a lot of you probably know
but I'll tell you why when when I get
going though sunscreen is so important
because the Sun is such a huge trigger
for us and yet it's so hard to find a
sunscreen that won't irritate or cause a
flare-up of its own so when I did my
ignition my initial video the very very
first one on this channel it was about I
had how I had had luck with an Aveeno
sunscreen for a really long time I used
that for years it was the baby one I
could alternate between the baby and the
sensitive skin one and suddenly one year
every single time I applied it it caused
my skin to flare it was so frustrating
because then I had to go as you know
through the process of starting over and
trial and error and testing it and it's
very expensive I end up handing out a
lot of sunscreens that don't work for me
out to other people in my life because
you know testing something out and a lot
of sunscreens you can't test in the
store they don't have a sample it's not
like a lipstick or something like that
so I thought that instead of listing all
the ones that I've tried that don't work
I'll just talk specifically about my
favorites that I use right now I've used
so many that I don't even really
remember which ones I've tried anymore
hit in the best and I didn't keep all of
their packages because I wasn't doing
that yet so the ones I'm going to talk
about now are the ones that I regularly
use as I said I also like I just went
walking and this is basically the hat
but I wear if I'm going out and I'm
running to the store or I'm running down
the street to visit a neighbor or that
kind of thing
this basically my neighbors actually
know me by this hat there have been
times when I've been out and I'll pass
them and they don't actually know me
because I don't have this hat on that so
much I wear this this is not actually
good enough if I'm going to be out there
for quite some time um it doesn't give
any coverage from the sides or behind or
anything like that this is just
basically and it only protects rowboat
here even if the Sun is coming straight
at me so I throw this on just for a
little bit of added coverage on
basically the tops of my cheeks and
things the areas that that are actually
affected the most as long as I'm just
going to be at their really really short
time I wear my sunglasses as well they
are big so they provide even more
coverage than my regular glasses so I've
got that much going on just if I want to
run down the street for a very short
period of time
or if I go out on my balcony first thing
in the morning to water my garden if I'm
going out any longer than that then I
will need sunscreen typically speaking
if I'm not going out somewhere
like because I walk dogs every morning
so if I'm going out to walk dogs I'll
wear this hat and a whole pile of
sunscreen and sunglasses and things
because I can't do anything other than
that I'm I have both hands busy because
there are two dogs and I can't wear
something that is going to blow off my
head if it's windy because this hat I
can put my ponytail through so it
basically holds it on even if the Hat
slips up I can just Mack it back down
again with my wrist so that's what I
wear if I'm just going to walk my dog if
I'm going anywhere else if I'm going to
be sitting out where it's sunny or if
I'm going for a stroll without the dogs
it's not exercise walking but it's just
going out to you know hang out with
somebody or you know strolling along
where the stores are downtown or some
like that then I take some added
precautions that would be for example
really big hats this is my new one this
year that I'm super excited about
because I also have a whole pile of
scarves so I can actually tie these
around and okay that looks terrible but
just just believe me it's filled with
nice when it happens but I can either
wear it plain or I can tie any of a
number of different scarves around it
and even on Canada Day when it comes
like I'll be covered so yeah so I have
all these scarves and things that I can
dress it up or I can just wear it
playing like this and it's just a big
huge hat with a massive brim that goes
all the way around and it provides
really really good some coverage if I'm
not really walking very far or if I'm
just going to be sitting for example if
I'm sitting on my balcony or I'm sitting
on somebody's patio or deck we're just
relaxing in the sun i also have parasols
trying to bring these back in the south
because some for one thing they are
really beautiful they're really they
feel really dainty and pretty they're
really fun to use and I like to get you
know I now have three of them so I have
purple blue and red but it's nice to
have different colors
to feel like it's matching an outfit and
then I can sit there and just shade
provide myself with a little bit of
shade and it's not just a regular rain
umbrella Matt I do look for shade in
things but down to the actual products
themselves for sunscreen there are three
that I use on a regular basis the first
is this one here it's La Roche Posay I
don't know if you say that and stelios
are ant Helios but either way it is an
ultra light product and it's a liquid
instead of what they're calling it a
fluid instead of a like a cream I'll see
if this is right at the end of the
bottles but it won't get a little heat
in it to help shake it acid okay it's
just not going to be but it's you can
see how runny it is there we go it's
very very much a liquid
and I just as you saw run out of this
one but I have another box of it in here
to get started again because I do really
like it this is the only chemical based
sunscreen that I can use without a
flare-up and this is actually a really
nice product I'm not wild about chemical
sunscreens because I've been reading
into the ingredients and it's really
scary there are a lot of hormone
interrupters and things that sink into
your skin and just do they just wreak
havoc in your body but that said I don't
feel that I have to too much of a choice
in terms of what I do I have to wear
sunscreen and there are times when I
have to wear it pretty intensely and
this one is a 60 it has really really
good protection it rubs in very nicely
there is absolutely nothing greasy left
behind and it does not make my skin
flare up I don't know if that's the same
for all rosacea patients but for me this
does absolutely nothing in terms of
flaring up it sits nicely under makeup I
don't wear makeup all that often but if
I do and I have to be the side then this
is underneath it
sometimes alternately I always use my
another one and I'm about to talk about
I like using the other one more but this
is the one that I will wear for example
when I'm walking dogs when I'm going to
be out in the Sun for a while and I'm
exercising and things like that if I'm
going to be sweaty if I know that I'm
going to be in a lot of really direct
sunlight and there is nothing I can do
about it that's the one that I'll
usually wear on my face I also like the
fact that it washes off really easily
because sunscreen is usually pretty hard
to get off and my strategy with
sunscreen is pretty much to put it on 50
minutes before going out and then wash
it off the first moment I possibly can
so I'm out with the dogs normally I'm
for around an hour so I put it on 15
minutes before going I go out I get the
dogs ready I walk them I come home and I
wash the stuff off my face so it's on
there as little as possible because even
the really good stuff I don't want it on
there especially the chemical stuff so
after la roche-posay is lying next one
that I use and I use this for completely
different reasons is the Celtic
complexion this is amazing amazing stuff
and I like this
this is actually the organic sunscreen
it's completely chemical free it's made
of ink oxide I like this and I also like
I don't have it here but I do have it
somewhere and it is the they're tinted
moisturizer because it also has a
student sunscreen built into it this one
comes out white on your skin a little
bit not much not compared to a lot of
other natural sunscreens it actually
does blend quite nicely the tinted
moisturizer it also has like a color to
it but it's also tinted so it's not
white it's more you can match it to your
skintone a little bit better that said
this it's beautifully under makeup and
it is absolutely not breezy it goes on
kind of I wouldn't say a powdery finish
that's I don't really know it's a very
dry finish so without being drying so I
can put this on and then put makeup on
on top so if I'm going to an outdoor
event where I feel like I need to look
really nice I can put this on under
makeup and it is wonderful and this it
says that the SPF is 32 but I find that
the coverage is the same as the 60 I get
the exact same protection from it my
skin is just as happy either way and
this does not irritate my skin at all
the downside I would have to this one
even though I fit the reason that I
don't that I actually use this one as
well and I don't use this all the time
because ideally I would want to use this
all the time is that I live in Canada
and this is made and sold exclusively in
the United States so shipping is a
little bit on the costly side when
you're living on a bit of a budget like
I am and the other thing is that this is
a little bit more challenging to get off
which is good in that you can
accidentally wipe it off as easily or
anything but it does mean that there's
it you need a two-step process to get it
off normally I use coconut oil or jojoba
oil or some one of the oils I even them
have grapeseed oil next to in my
bathrooms that you can use to get this
off and then I use my regular cleanser
to get that off so this is it does take
a two-step process to get it off but
ideally actually this is the one that I
would use all the time if I could afford
it my skin absolutely loves this it does
well under makeup it does well without
makeup because I am SuperDuper pale
the whiteness of it really doesn't look
bad on me it actually just gives a
little bit of redness coverage for me
and I don't mind that at all so I really
don't about wearing this I don't really
have any complaints so when I become a
millionaire I will be using this
exclusively for my face and finally just
as a side note this here it's called
substance it's it's from the matter
company they have a lot of baby praten
all natural baby products and this one's
SPF 50 and it's made with organic shea
butter and green tea extract this is
also all-natural made with the same zinc
oxide that you would find in this one
and it has excellent excellent excellent
protection I just can't seem to figure
out how to use it on my face because
this leaves a huge amount of whiteness
behind I don't know if you can see when
it comes out it comes out very thick
like this it is very very white and
let's see if I can do this with any
grace but if you put it on it's just
white and it doesn't matter how much you
rub it in it's white so sorry it's very
very bright in here because of all the
sunlight coming in but it doesn't matter
how much I rub this or spread this or
anything like you can tell the
difference between my two hands now
well actually this one you can even see
the freckles all that much anymore but
one is way lighter than the other and
then you go like this and you've got
white all over well I really I can't use
this on my face and I have a really hard
time I can use this very very very
sparingly in some ways but um I would
love to be able to figure out how to use
this without making a mess the only
thing that I've figured out so far is to
add skin oils or add it mix it in with a
lotion another lotion that I can use and
that way I can do it and it kind of
thins it out but that probably reduces
the sun protection too so I didn't want
to bring this up because it's an awesome
awesome product if you don't mind you
know if you're wearing a lot of white or
light clothes I wear dark clothes all
the time but um
yep so that is a really good company
it's a really trustworthy product I love
it except when it gets all over my stuff
that's it it does wash late that's what
I was I didn't hesitate really to go
like that once I throw this in the wash
even though I'm using you know I'm just
using soap nuts till they wash it right
out so there is no problem getting it
out it's just that you have to live with
it until you'd launder your clothing I
didn't want to point that I mean that's
I just wanted to say that's why I don't
I don't really use it on my face because
I like that actually looks like white
clown makeup and but it is a really
really good product if you know how to
use a product like that and not get it
all over yourself or know how to blend
it in properly then it is completely
worthwhile because it's excellent and
it's really the chemical products are
really something that you don't want to
be using a lot of especially over a
large surface of your skin because your
skin is an organ and it does absorb
things so you do want to be really
careful so I'm going to I will I bought
a huge elephant again this year to love
it I mean and I do plan to figure out
how to work it because I really like
this product and finally another little
thing that I wanted to note is that I
also I talked about this one before too
this was actually in my rosy life kit
you remember when I was offering that at
the end of last year and it seems to be
focusing in on my face let's see if we
can get it to focus on no it really
wants to focus on me I had just chasing
me around there we go yeah so that's
just it's a regular ballistics product
it's a lip balm and it has SPF 15 in it
so I always use this before going out
not only because I have dry lips so I
want to use this but it has an extra sun
protection and I think that that's super
important too if you're doing their
whole face and you don't want to forget
about your lips or your ears that matter
just as a little side note other than
that I do take a lot of care to wash
everything off first thing that I can
even me all-natural stuff so that is
pretty much my sun protection routine a
lot of it has to do with just blocking
in the first place with wearing big hats
and stuff like that but when I can't I
do use these products I use them as
little as I possibly can so I don't use
them when I'm indoors I don't use them
if I'm just run
across the street or something like that
but I do use them year-round
and I feel that's really important so
that was collective babble but I do hope
that you found it useful or helpful or
interesting or entertaining
what kind of sunscreen do you use I'm
just curious because it you know we ever
be these three products that I have here
are the only ones that I know that work
for me that don't cause a flare-up so I
am curious to know if anybody has had
any luck with anything else how long do
you wear your sunscreen and does it
actually cause irritation or anything
like that or do you find that you can
get away without it um because that will
make me hugely jealous but yeah I am
interested I'm always looking to try out
new things I'm happy with the ones that
I have but I would be curious to have
alternatives because you never know if
something's going to be discontinued or
if the formula is going to change or
when my skin is going to change its own
mind which is what happened with the
Aveeno a few years back so what so um I
hope you'll share that with me I am
super interested as I said so then that
I hope you did like this video if you
did please give it a thumbs up and if
you want to see more videos like this
where I talk about various topics and I
try different products and things like
that then I hope you'll subscribe to my
channel if you haven't done that yet and
than that I will see you next time
[Music]